Hello and welcome again.
In the next couple of lectures we're going to be making ourselves a fireball projectile a weapon that
we'll be equipping to our planet to be on a shoot and I've broken it out in a more than just one lecture
because I was trying to create one lecture and it was becoming massive.
So I've broken it out into a couple and what we going to do in this video is set up the structure the
framework of making the weapon having the pick up and equipping it to the player so that we've got something
we can shoot and start testing in the next video.
So I'm going to give this to you as a challenge.
We've done it a few times so it should be straightforward.
But I want you to be doing this of your own accord.
Make a viable weapon make a fireball projectile.
Don't worry about what it looks like yet.
That will be the subject for the next lecture.
For now just duplicate the route arrow prefab and rename that as fireball and start using that mega
fireball pickup that allows the player to have the the final weapon and then equipment and test says
he challenged jump in take that on I'll see you back here when you're done.
Okay let's get over into weapons or right click Create a folder and we'll call this fireball and within
the fireball weapon we want to fold.
Sorry when a right click Create weapons make new weapon and we'll call this fireball.
This is our scriptural object.
We also need to right click Create animator override controller which will call fireball a animator
to over ride.
Okay.
And I've forgotten a few times and I've been prototyping to go and change the controller here so that
we are using the character controller that we're overriding now while he will put in a some sort of
animation for my character I'm not going to use a star for a wand or something.
I'm just having the fireball come out of his hand.
But you could absolutely put a weapon or a symbol or something in his hand that'd be cool.
I'm going to select as my animation in here.
We should have something in our pack which is the item attack.
That's what I'll use if you'd like to see if you've got a weapon or a staff or something you might want
to use one of the other animations.
Now into fireball let's change the animator override to be the final animation to override prefab as
I'm mentioning I'm not going to have a prefab in here but you could absolutely have a staff or something.
Damage I'm going to leave low so we don't kill our dude just yet and projectile.
We haven't made that just yet.
We'll do that now.
Side note I don't think I mentioned I'll just grab one of my enemies and popped him over here and put
his chase radius down to 2 so that we can just do some little play testing and prototyping over here.
Now projectiles we've got our arrow projectile This is our route project I'm going to rename this route
arrow projectile and put a space in between similar what we did with our pickups we've got our route
pick up.
So if our route arrow projectile and then and then so these spaces don't bug me I'm just going to put
a space between arrow projectile blue and Arrow projectile red.
You don't have to.
I'm just tidying up a little bit and then from the root arrow projectile I'm going to duplicate that
and then rename this to fireball projectile in the future.
I might make this my route and then do a prefab variant of the fireball and prefab variants of this
others but for now I just have this is my my one project Darla work on it.
I'm not sure if I'm going to make other spell projectiles just yet.
So could our fireball projectile where do we need to place that.
Well we need to go to our fireball and then grab our projectile and drag it on over fireball projectile
which is going to look like an arrow.
Side note if you're holding it you drive across the screen the trail from the back of our projectile
you can see how it looks which is kind of cool.
Now let's just drop it in the player's hand to make sure we know it works a default weapon instead of
unarmed.
I will have as the fireball and I think I've missed a step in here let me go have a look at my fireball
weapon fireball.
What's the range I want to have the range much further say 20 because it's gonna be a distance weapon.
Okay.
Run over to where the enemy is.
Click on the enemy.
Okay any through.
So if you imagine that this is a fireball not an arrow projectile I think it's gonna look pretty nifty
we've got the base functionality in there working pretty well.
I think we will need to slow down the speed of our fireball so we'll do that now.
Projectiles fireball projectile open up that changed to speed down to say 8 and leave everything else
as it is for now.
Because we want a way of visualizing it before we can put our nifty fireball particle system on our
fireball and just double check that this is working okay.
Whoops.
Click on you.
Bam.
Okay.
It's like a magic missile now isn't it.
If you've played Dungeons and Dragons you know about magic missiles.
Very cool.
Now we wanna make a pickup so that we've got all of our functionality in place.
Let's go to our pickups route pickup right click Create prefab variant.
We'll call this fireball pickup in the future we might have this as a spell or as a potion or as a mana
recharge.
But at this point we're working on the weapon functionality as opposed to the resource functionality
to open up our fireball pick up in here you can see that it's kind of empty.
We don't have anything in there because it's by straight on the route.
What do we want to have as our visualization.
I'm going to go to my asset packs fund the Sinti asset pack fund the prefabs and then just control and
scroll to make this slide to go up.
I think I'm gonna use this little flower thing.
Okay.
He's a flower dragged that under fireball pick up and then make it bigger maybe like 3 3 3.
Okay it looks big kind of looks a bit fiery.
That's why I chose it.
Little bit random in a way.
And we need to move it over to the left.
So it's roughly in the middle.
Okay.
Roughly.
Good enough.
Back to our scene and find out pickups folder.
Yes there it is drag our newly created pickup which should be in our pickups folder fireball pickup.
Excellent just gonna go back to having my text here.
Fly ball pick up drag that into pickups move it in front of the dude.
I've been here a little bit okay.
And also while we're on the fireball pick up we need to make sure that it knows what it is.
Assigning as the weapons or weapon pickup we will make this the fireball okay.
That should be enough to test it out.
Click on play now currently equipped with a fireball so I have to run over and pick up the sword.
Blink run over and pick up the fireball.
There we go.
And bam.
I got everything in place now with our functionality with the exception of the projectile itself which
we will do in the next video.
So great work.
And see you again shortly.